never give up on what you really want to
do the person with big dreams is more
powerful than the person with all the
facts H Jackson Browne
truer words have never been spoken it is
one of the most interesting things about
the human condition
that all of the facts in the world no
matter how true something may
objectively really be the only thing
that matters is whether or not you've
got the energy to see through to the end
of what you want to do and the energy
comes not from truth the energy comes
from your dream the energy comes from
what it is that you want to do the
energy ultimately is born out of what
you want to create it's born out of a
willingness to allow yourself to dream
it's born out of a willingness to think
that you actually can do it it's born
out of a willingness to take that first
step but the only reason that you're
gonna take that first step is you
believe that you can actually make your
dreams come true and that sense of this
thing that you have in your mind that
you can make it real that you can bring
it into the real world and have that
excitement you've long fantasized about
and understand and really feel in your
gut that that thing that you've dreamed
about can be real and when you have that
that's when you're going to have the
energy that you need to push and to
fight and to go through all of the
difficult things that you're gonna have
to to get on the other side and make
that dream real as Ferdinand fox said
the most powerful weapon on earth is the
human soul on fire
can't be on fire without a dream a human
soul is not fed by facts a human soul is
fed instead by a belief that it can
accomplish what it wants to accomplish
it's fed by that thing that idea that
you found your mind that you fan those
flames of interest and turned it into a
real fascination and fan those flames
further into excitement and allowed
yourself to truly embody that belief
that you can make it happen so right now
whatever it is whatever crazy dream you
have and we all have one stop judging
yourself for it stop telling yourself
that you can't do it and understand when
you cultivate that fire when you take
that little ember and you fan it into a
raging in front of the that thing that
humans stole on fire is what's going to
allow you to build something that the
world has never seen before but it
starts with that dream it starts with
your willingness to cultivate that to
think about it to allow yourself to do
that because so many people stop
themselves they think they're inadequate
they think that they could never do it
and even if that is a fact
it's not something that's gonna help you
live a life that excites you it's not
something that's going to help you
excite other people but one thing that
will do that is the dream
so right now allow yourself that simply
to dream as Joseph Campbell said find a
place inside where there's joy and the
joy will burn out the pain now I get it
life inevitably comes with some degree
of misery and I get it for many of you
things have happened in your past that
are unspeakable and whether that's
something big or whether it's something
small each one of us has something
inside of us that hurts it's something
that we wish weren't so it's something
that we focus on when we're alone it's
the thing that keeps us up at night it's
the thing that wakes us up in the
morning it's the thing that we
obsessively come back to over and over
and over for whatever reason that we
think means that we're not good enough
but I also know that inside each one of
us is something beautiful that even in
the midst of pain if you allow yourself
to focus on that to feel the joy to not
just think about it but to actually feel
the joy it will begin to crowd out the
pain it will actually take that room and
just like when you're trying to create
something amazing in your life do not
waste time trying to tear down the old
if you're trying to create something
beautiful in your life spend all of your
time trying to build that new thing so
if you want to feel joy
don't try to eradicate the pain instead
focus all of your energy on that joy
let it become so bright that it
ultimately takes over the pain and as
aristotle said it is during our darkest
moments that we must focus to see light
and that's the thing with pleasure and
pain when you've got that ache inside of
you when you feel that something in your
past is stopping you from moving forward
it is in that moment that you must put
your focus and attention on the things
that are good on the things that you've
done that are good on the joys and the
beauty and the things in your life that
you're grateful for all of that if you
take your time and you put your focus on
that even when it hurts especially when
it hurts if you're able to do that if
you're able to find a way to take all of
your energy and put it on that to repeat
it to let it become a mantra to let it
be the first thing you think about when
you wake up the last thing you think
about in the night and the thing that
you cling to when you wake up and cannot
fall asleep if you let it be that thing
that you can put all of your attention
on that then you can actually change
your chemistry you can actually change
your own story you can actually change
your life but you've got to know it's in
our darkest moments that we must focus
on the light
[Music]
Happy New Year everybody I hope this
time of year is as exciting for you guys
as it is for me and I definitely think
about new beginnings but I don't think
about resolutions and the reason that I
don't think about resolutions and the
reason that I hope you guys don't think
about resolutions either is as Mary
Shelley said the beginning is always
today and that's the important thing
whenever you're hearing this video
whether it's at the first of the year or
not whatever moment this is finding you
I want you to take this moment to
realize that you can make whatever
change you want to make in your life as
Napoleon Hill set
first comes thought the beginning as you
will observe is in the imagination and
that's the key to getting started is you
have to understand that you already have
everything that you want but you've got
to think about what it is you're trying
to create in your life first you've got
to define that starting with the goal
and understanding where it is that you
want to go and then having the courage
to take that first step you've got to
have that courage you've got to have
that willingness to step forward into
the unknown not knowing where it's gonna
go not knowing what you're gonna have to
do to get there and not overwhelming
yourself by looking at the entire task
but rather taking a single step
anesthesia Rozsival said far and away
the best plies that life has to offer is
the chance to work hard at World War
this is the thing that is the great
destroyer of dreams people want it to be
easy and the only people that are gonna
succeed are the ones that really
understand that the prize that life has
to offer is to really pour yourself into
something that is worthwhile to gain a
set of skills that are going to serve
other people to do something to have a
vision that's bigger than yourself and
to go after it with everything that you
have but ask yourself when was the last
time you poured yourself into doing
something where you gave yourself over
completely and totally to something
because that that's what success is
going to demand of you if you're really
going to tap into the human ability to
adapt to grow to get better to become
capable of the extraordinary to really
do something that it's going to change
people's lives whether yours or somebody
else you've got to fall in love with the
process of busting your ass for
something that you believe in and if you
can do that if you can identify that
thing that you're willing to give
yourself over to and take that first
step in courage without knowledge
without knowing exactly where it's going
to end up but believing in yourself
having faith in yourself that you can do
it then you'll be able to accomplish
anything you set your mind to
matter what day today is no matter when
this message reach whether it's the
first of the year where it's a random
[__] Tuesday start now
[Music]
everybody I hope you enjoyed that one
I've got some more coming up for you so
keep watching and at the end don't
forget take action everyone takes the
limits of their own vision for the
limits of the world
Arthur Chopin our there is all around
you right now
the reflections of your world belief
they're so ever-present that you don't
even see them all the assumption that
you've made about the world the things
that are possible what you're capable of
who you are the very definition of what
it means to be alive all of it is
completely invisible and you're
mistaking what you have for what could
be and once you break free of that once
you understand that right now you're a
moment in time and that you have latent
potential and that latent potential can
be expressed in the form of skills that
you can get good at things that you can
develop yourself in any direction that
brain plasticity alone is one of the
greatest weapons that you're not using
but you have to move beyond what you can
perceive today you have to begin to look
beyond that and see that which doesn't
yet exist and you have to remember that
many of the things that are holding you
down are rules that you don't even
realize or rules and as General Douglas
MacArthur said you're remembered for the
rules you break and right now you're
following rules that you don't even
realize exists and some of those rules
are simply what is okay to dream but I'm
here to tell you the power is in
recognizing that you can do it the power
is in having the arrogance of belief the
power is an understanding that
yes you are going to be capable of
something simply because you are willing
to believe in yourself and that's the
thing it's a willingness to believe in
yourself no one's gonna give it to you
even the people that love you they're
not gonna give you that they are
incapable of giving it to you people
cannot see past their limitations and
they take them for truth people actually
believe the things that have stopped
them will forever not only stop them but
they will stop other people how can they
hope to give you anything but limitation
so if you know that if you know that
even the people that love you what
they're handing it was limitation with
the best of [__] intentions with all
the love in the world how are you gonna
break out of that how are you gonna
break past those rules how are you gonna
fight the anxiety that inevitably comes
your way when you think about going
against the grain but my friends until
you can do that you can never get beyond
the [__] that limits you if people
said gravity is what it is we never
would have reached the skate velocity
and yet as a species we have been able
to hurl a [__] rocket into space get
it outside of gravity take us to other
planets that is real only because
somebody said I refuse to be held down
by the most obvious rule that we have
the one that everybody says is beyond
reproach and that is gravity
but even gravity will break under the
weight of a superior will so recognized
as Epictetus said if you want to improve
be content to be thought foolish and
stupid can you be content to be thought
foolish and stupid or do you allow
yourself to be caged to be hemmed in by
what other people think and look I get
it I understand the steam of contempt I
understand how much it sucks when
someone you respect doesn't respect you
but you cannot be anything more than
their captive if you think about what
they think about you if you let yourself
be defined by what other people perceive
of as you then you will forever be
limited by what they give you permission
to do and I don't know about you but
when I was a kid I said when I'm an
adult I
never [__] be told what to do again I
will never be held back by somebody else
I will define myself I will figure out
what I need to do and I will do it and
at the end of the day that is it my
goals drive my behavior I am NOT held
back by what other people think about me
no matter how [__] intoxicating it is
to be loved you have to decide what you
want more do you want to be you or do
you want to be someone else's reflection
of you
[Music]
as Mark Twain said the secret to getting
ahead is getting started that's
something I want all of you guys to
really embody and really think about
really put at the core of your existence
that step number one to accomplishing
whatever it is that you want to do is
actually getting started and I
understand I know the thing that holds
you back I know the thing that is
absolutely paralyzing for people is you
don't think that you have what it takes
to go out and be good and rather than
face that difficult brutal process of
growing and getting better and quite
frankly facing your inadequacies it's
easier just to sit back but as John
Wooden said never let what you cannot do
interfere with what you can there is
something right now that you're capable
of there is an innate skill inside of
you that's your spark it's that starting
point it's that thing that while you may
not be the best in the world at it it's
a flame that you can fan it's something
that you can breathe life into and
really begin to get good but first you
have to understand the very nature of
progress and that's a Stephen Covey set
you're not the product of your
circumstances but rather a product of
your decisions and it's those decisions
that are going to allow you to build
that skill set so don't worry about
where you started don't worry about what
you already have remember it's the
decisions that you make it's going down
that road it is the decision to get
started its the decision to face
possible failure it's the decision to
get up once you failed and it's the
decision of what to learn when you fail
do you learn that you're not
never should have tried well do you
learn a lesson from the failure and get
up and brush yourself off and remember
that at the end of the day you're going
to go as far as you're willing to fight
for and that's it if you're willing to
fight to go all the way then you will go
that far you will set a new bar you will
define for people what is possible to
become that beacon of hope you become
that thing that other people look to as
the standard at the end of the day it
started with you
getting started it started with you
showing up it started with you pushing
and trying I worry about what you have
and what you are focus on who you want
to become and the price you're willing
to pay together
[Music]
as Nelson Mandela said education is the
most powerful weapon you can use to
change the world wherever you are right
now listening to this I want you to burn
that into your mind the most powerful
weapon that you're going to have at your
disposal isn't a gun it isn't a sword it
isn't a bomb the most powerful weapon
you will ever have at your disposal if
you really want to make change is
knowledge it doesn't mean going to
school it can be school it can be books
it can be a mentor it can be somebody
else's failure it can be your own
failure but whatever it is to always be
learning to be learning something today
knowing that that's an investment and as
Robert Louis Stevenson said don't judge
each day by the harvest you reap but
rather by the seeds you plant and that's
what knowledge is that's what the
learning process is is you're learning
something today that you may not even
understand how it's going to be valuable
a one day
that piece of knowledge is gonna come to
your in one day that thing that you
learned is gonna be something that
you're gonna lean on one day that thing
that you've worked your ass off to
understand better than anybody else in
the world it's going to help you change
the world but you have to be doing it
now you have to be learning with an
obsession you have to understand that
ideas inequal ideas out and that you
have to chase that knowledge down that
it is a relentless pursuit and that like
you would build an armada like you would
create a stock pile of weapons you must
create a stockpile of knowledge you must
learn and learn and learn and you must
hold yourself accountable every day
defending those scenes to getting better
to learning more to understanding things
more broadly when you do that
be nothing that won't be unlocked to you
that's what I want you guys to
understand it doesn't matter where you
are
where you started your circumstances the
money the people that you know none of
it matters what matters is how much you
willing to learn how good are you
willing to get how much knowledge are
you willing to soak in because that will
become your weapon that will be how you
rise up and that would be the thing that
would protect you when you need it most
[Music]
for you
so if you want to do something
incredible tomorrow learn today as
Michelangelo said if people knew how
hard I work to achieve my mastery it
wouldn't seem so wonderful after all and
that's the thing about getting great
that's the thing about being an artist
of such caliber that you're remembered
for hundreds of years after your death
it is back-breaking work
it is a blinding amount of effort it
isn't about natural talent that myth
that some people are born with something
that we celebrate so much is just that a
myth you're born a lump of flesh you
can't hold your own head up you may have
predispositions but that is a long way
from actually crafting your ability and
to the point where it looks like magic
and that's the beauty of artistry isn't
it
that it's so unbelievable that you're
more willing to believe that it was God
given that they were anointed with it
and that they just worked their ass off
but the truth is every one of the
Great's no matter how much natural
talent they were born with they're
remembered because they worked they were
remembered because they did so much work
because in that work is
in that work is difficulty in that work
is unbearable adversity but it's in that
adversity that the magic happens and as
Victor Hugo said adversity makes men
prosperity makes monsters so I know
right now you wish you've been born with
some talent you wish that all those
dreams that you have they were yours for
the taking that you didn't have to put
blood sweat and tears into it that
somebody would hand you at least
something in the beginning that they
would give you some start since spark
that's where the monsters created if you
really want to get hard if you really
want to get tough if you want to get
great if you want to be unfuckin
touchable because no one can bend or
break your vision of yourself then you
have to suffer that's the way of the
world and as Florence Nightingale said I
attribute my success to this I never
gave or took any excuse
and that's the secret at the end of the
day if you know what you want it's only
a question of whether you're willing to
pay the price to get there so ask
yourself are you willing to pay the
price
[Music]
as Ralph Waldo Emerson said do not go
where the path may lead go instead where
there is no path and leave a trail it's
never going to make sense it's never
going to be obvious you're never going
to walk out your door and see the
obvious way that you want to go and if
you do it's a trap if you do go down the
path that's already laid for you it's
going to take you to all the
destinations that are already known it's
going to take you to all of the places
that instinct drove the people before
you but if you want to go somewhere
unique if you want to go somewhere that
only you would go if you want to create
something new and really live a life
that was meant for you because it's
literally crafted by you you have to
take the first steps on faith and as
Rumi said as you start to walk out on
the way the way appears so as you're
looking at the choices that are before
you where you've got a path that's well
trodden you've got a path that literally
is invisible and won't become something
until you step on it you have to
understand that that's what this life is
meant to be and that the only
frustration that you will look back on
with tremendous regret is knowing that
you did what was easy even though it
wasn't you'd there's some mechanism
inside of us there's some thing that
wants us to walk a path that's never
been walked before and the thing that
makes it so hard is right now inside of
you is a desperate desire for that to be
easy but it's not going to be easy it's
going to be hard you're going to fail
you're gonna stumble you're gonna fall
on your face and thank God because as
Mohammed Ali said only
man who knows what it's like to be
defeated can reach down to the bottom of
his soul and come up with the extra
ounce of power it takes to win when the
match is even so what you have to ask
yourself is what do you want do you want
it to be easy do you want the path to be
well young or do you want the path to be
yours do you want to know that inside of
you is something that you can reach into
and grab and that will be there at the
moment that you most need it do you want
to know that you're that type of person
because if you do you have to be willing
to walk the path that doesn't exist you
have to be willing to tread through the
brambles you have to be willing to fall
because it is in that process of failure
and pain and agony and suffering that
you will become that's the process that
will make you you that's the process
that will shape you
it's the sufferer
that gives you the reserves to draw when
you leave the most so when you ask for
safety when you ask for ease know that
you're saying a prayer for weakness and
when you take the hard way know that
you're forging yourself when you make
those demands know that you're building
a reserve tank that will be there at the
moment when you need it when you walk
the path that only you can walk know
that you're living the life that you
were meant to live and that my friends
is how you become the you worth becoming
[Music]
I listen and listen well because no
truer words are ever gonna be [__]
spoken you can do anything you want
without limitation whatever it is that
you decide you want to make come true in
your life you can do that it is gonna
take an inhuman amount of work you're
gonna have to be prepared to break
yourself in half you're going to have to
learn more than anyone has ever learned
you can have to push yourself harder
than anyone has ever asked you to push
yourself before you're gonna go way
beyond your breaking point you're gonna
run until you vomit you're gonna study
until you fall asleep you're going to
push and push and push and then you're
gonna push some [__] more and when
you hit the limit you're gonna push
again beyond that you're gonna force
yourself into an adaptation response and
why because it's Malcolm X said the
future belongs to those who prepare for
it today so if you don't put the work in
today if you don't do the unending
back-breaking work of developing
yourself into something greater the
world is gonna pass you by the people
that are going to own it are going to be
the ones that did that work and the one
promise that I can make you right now is
that somebody somebody out there is out
working somebody right now is doing the
things that I'm saying somebody right
now is doing the work of
failing and getting up and getting
better and pushing themselves and
triggering that glorious adaptation
response that makes humans the apex
predator someone right now they're
putting in that work and if you don't
the future is gonna belong to them and
as Martin Luther King jr. said you can't
fly than one if you can't run then walk
if you can't walk then crawl but
whatever you do you have to keep moving
forward it's not okay to make excuses
it's not gonna slow people down it's not
okay to ask the world to stop so that
you can step out front it's not okay to
expect little of yourself and demand
great rewards the only thing that's okay
is to be in line with the way that the
world really works and if you want to be
great you've got to become capable of
greatness you've got to develop your
skill set you've got to take what you
have now and if that's crawling then
[__] crawl but you drag yourself ever
forward to a vision of yourself that is
so clear and so specific that nothing
could knock you off your path
you my friends know exactly where you're
going you're willing to pay whatever
price it takes to get there and no
matter what anybody says no matter how
many [__] hecklers come for you no
matter how many people try to throw dirt
on you try to stop you try to knock you
down no matter how many [__] people
come for you at night while you sleep
you will rise and you will keep pushing
forward and you will get better every
day and no matter how many times people
chop at you knocking down knock you off
the path you can get back on you will
crawl soon you can walk you will walk
till you run and then you will run until
you fly and that my friends is the only
path forward so if you want a [__]
future that makes you happy if you want
a world that you're excited about get
your ass out there and earn it as Thomas
Edison said our greatest weakness lies
in giving up the most certain way to
succeed is to always try one more time I
know they're gonna be a million times in
your life where you want to give up
where you absolutely ache with the
desire to quit where nothing sits inside
of your gut other than the certainty
that you are going to fail that you are
not good enough to push forward but that
is to fundamentally misunderstand the
nature of a failure the nature of a
failure is not to tell you who you are
the nature of a failure is to tell you a
way that didn't work it's to inform it's
to educate you it's to test you it's to
be a gut check to find out if you
believe in yourself enough to push
forward even when the world seems to be
telling you not to and as Brian Tracy
said
attempt the impossible in order to
improve your world
think about that for a second attempt
the impossible just to get better to try
the things that you know are going to
fail things that the world is gonna tell
you simply cannot be but even if it
violates the laws of physics if there's
something in that attempt that you're
going to learn you owe it to yourself
you have a [__] moral obligation to
try because all of the people that will
lie in your wake are the people that
didn't try simply because they didn't
believe that they could do it you have
to be willing to look at the world you
have to be willing to see things that
you yourself think are impossible and
try because in that you will stretch
yourself you have to be willing to look
inward at the state of your current
skill set and say I am going to play
outside of that I'm not going to play
words safe I'm going to play where it
hurts I'm going to play where I feel
clumsy I'm going to play only in the
areas that make me feel stupid because
in that I know that the way that the
brain responds is to adaptation but I
have to stress myself you can't ever
lose sight of that the only way that the
human animal adapts is through stress
you have to be willing to break things
in order to
so if you want to push the boundaries if
you want to see just how far you can go
if you want to succeed at the highest
level if you want to play on a global
scale you have got to be willing to try
the impossible because right now the
things that you need to do are
impossible for you but they won't remain
that way forever and as Aristotle said
pleasure in the job puts perfection in
the work this doesn't have to be a tale
of always being terrified everybody
myself included screaming at you telling
you that you need to go do something
great the part they're leaving out is
why the [__] should you care you should
character this is the greatest joy you
should only listen to this if it's
leading you down a path that makes you
feel more alive and that's the point the
point is to get in touch with something
that makes you feel great but not to let
yourself starve or be stopped by a fear
that you'll fail by a fear that it can't
be done
have fun have the guts to enjoy yourself
have the guts to go out and attempt
something audacious and terrifying
knowing that all along if you're doing
it right you're gonna have a good time
so all of this going balls out trying to
prove something to yourself trying to do
something amazing never lose sight that
it's to build a better life never lose
sight of the fact that you're doing it
to create the person that you want to be
never lose sight of the fact that
be fun
[Music]